hello and welcome to bbc world news
palestinians across the west bank and
gaza
are on strike today to show their anger
against ongoing israeli airstrikes
over 200 people have died in the last
week nearly all of them palestinian
the airstrikes against targets in gaza
have continued throughout the night
and into today the other way a new
barrage of rockets and mortar shells by
palestinian militants into southern
israel
have killed two workers and injured
seven more
the strike has shuttered businesses
across the region
and some of the strikes are on the
streets in the west bank town of
bethlehem
israeli police use tear gas after
clashes with the protesters
paul adams reports from jerusalem
[Applause]
gaza's punishment continues more
airstrikes at dawn
israel says this is not over it doesn't
just want the rockets to stop
it wants its opponent crippled it's been
hitting the homes of hamas leaders
and destroying as much of their hardware
as possible
hamas still has plenty of rockets but
launchers are vulnerable
the directive is to continue striking
terrorist targets
the idf is doing this very well we will
continue to take
whatever action is necessary to restore
peace and security
to all residents of israel
international outrage is building over
the civilian cost
almost 40 000 people have been displaced
the territory's only coveted testing lab
partially destroyed
kamal hazala says he got a call from the
israeli army
telling him to get out of his home the
house next door was bombed
when he and his family returned this is
what they found
my mother was with me at home and now
she is out in the streets with no
shelter and i also have no shelter for
my children
here the whole house is totally
destroyed
in the west bank palestinians are once
again demonstrating over the situation
in gaza there's a general strike not
just among palestinians
it's being observed by israeli arabs too
but diplomatic efforts much less visible
are now gathering pace
international mediators are trying hard
to stop the fighting
and when the u.s president joe biden
spoke to mr netanyahu last night
he called for a ceasefire for the first
time
the un is heavily involved its envoy in
jerusalem one of few officials
actually talking to hamas with pressure
mounting on israel
its window of opportunity in gaza is
slowly
closing paul adams bbc news jerusalem
well i've been speaking to tarek adele
the egyptian ambassador to the uk
i asked him what conversations egypt was
having directly with hamas
over the last few days we've had many
contacts with the
palestinian factions in gaza and in the
rest of the palestinian occupied
territories
also we've had discussions and contacts
with
with the israelis with the hope that we
can
broker a ceasefire agreement
we have all witnessed the
falling of casualties on both sides
last numbers go up to more than 200
deaths on the palestinian side including
uh
more than 60 children and women also
there has been casualties on the israeli
side
up to 10 so far now this should stop
and we are hoping that the the rest of
the international community support us
on this
that we need to have a priority in this
conflict the priority right now
is to reach a ceasefire agreement after
which
we can have a serious discussion on how
to resume
peace negotiations between the two sides
so
just to get get a clear ambassador you
are talking directly at the moment to
hamas as well
we are talking to all sides uh that are
party to the conflict
and and when you make those contacts
with hamas i mean one of the conditions
for
the israelis is this won't stop until
the rockets stop
is that a message that you are
reiterating and putting pressure
on hamas to do so we are using all the
diplomatic tools at our disposal
to reach a ceasefire agreement now
if one side is going to say the other
side has to stop
first this is not going to get us
anywhere there has to be an
understanding
on both sides that the escalation must
stop
and must stop now
you are in a very unique uh position uh
ambassador because
a few people uh can speak to hamas
directly
and you have been in a position back in
2014 where you were able to broker
some kind of fragile ceasefire but you
did broker that
cairo is very much in the diplomatic
driving seat here
so you can put that pressure on hamas
country you do have leverage over the
group yes we are speaking with them and
uh we have indication that they would be
uh
willing to adhere to a ceasefire
agreement
if the israelis on the other side
adheres to it
and and again that's part of the problem
of what you're saying both sides are
saying well the other side has to stop
first so where the
where does this end well i'm
i'm seeing and i'm hearing that the
israelis
are saying that they have some goals to
achieve
and that they are only going to uh
pursue these goals which may take
a day two days three days whatever it
takes
now uh which means that we cannot have a
ceasefire agreement now
and if this is the position uh one would
expect
the other side not to adhere to any uh
ceasefire agreement
so there has to be an understanding that
things have to stop and stop
now there are casualties that are
falling on both sides
and this is not time to uh uh uh
blame uh one side or the other things
have to stop now
now we are uh working tirelessly uh we
have
envoys in both israel and the
palestinian
territories and in gaza and we hope that
our partners including the uk would
weigh
in uh on those efforts in order to bear
pressure
on the israelis as we are bearing
pressure on the palestinian side